This document covers my personal preferences on settings with Ungoogled Chromium.

Luckily, within the Artix repositories, they have a binary of Ungoogled Chromium available for easy installation:

doas pacman -S ungoogled-chromium

Afterwards which, there are some simple settings and extensions to use to ensure maximum privacy and preferences.

I'll leave you to figure out the settings for yourself. Personally I save no cookies, enable HTTPS-only, duckduckgo set to default search engine, amongst other settings.

Installing extensions from the google web store is a bit of a hassle, as you have to use an online tool called crxextractor to download the crx, then it's a simple drag and drop into chrome's extensions page.

INSTRUCTIONS ON INSTALLING EXTENSIONS:

Navigate to the Google Web Store:
https://chrome.google.com/webstore/category/extensions

Search for the extension you'd like to install

Search for the extension you'd like to installation

Afterwards which copy the https link above in your address bar using ctrl+c.

Open up another tab and head on over to:

https://crxextractor.com

Enter the link into the prompt at the start of their page. It will then download a .crx file.

Open up chromium's settings and then head to the Extensions section.

From there you can simply open up a graphical file manager and drag from your Downloads folder, the .crx file into the chromium Extensions page. This will install it (adjust settings per extension per your preferencves).

Make sure each extension is allowed in Incognito Mode.

LIST OF CHROMIUM EXTENSIONS:

Canvas FingerPrint Defender
Dark Reader (not needed if dark mode flag is enabled below, and the flag is better)
Decentraleyes
ForgetMeNot
NoScript
Snowflake
SponSorBlock for Youtube
Return Youtube Dislike
uBlock Origin
User-Agent Switcher and manager
Vimium
WebRTC Leak Prevent

Chrome Flags

Ungoogled Chromium has already set up most privacy respecting settings by default, but I prefer to add some additional settings:

navigate to the chrome flags page, in the url bar, enter:

chrome://flags

Here you will be presented with some options, set the following:

Disable search engine collection (enabled)
Show avatar/people/profile button (never)
Clear data on exit (enabled)
Hide tab close buttons (enabled)
Smooth scrolling (enabled)
Web Bluetooth (disabled)
Use the new permissions backend for Web Bluetooth (disabled)
Vulkan (enabled)
Auto Dark Mode for Web Contents (enabled)

And that should do it. Although I still prefer Librewolf (see firefox_notes.txt), this is about as close as I can get it given my current knowledge of "hardening" ungoogled-chromium.
